Our exploration of the
vulnerability management process
so far has been focused
on a couple of topics.
We've discussed how
vulnerabilities
influence the
design of defenses.
We've also talked about how
common vulnerabilities
are shared.
A topic we're yet to cover is
how vulnerabilities are
found in the first place.
Weaknesses and
flaws are generally
found during a
vulnerability assessment.
A vulnerability assessment is
the internal review process of
an organization's
security systems.
These assessments work
similar to the process of
identifying and categorizing
vulnerabilities
on the CVE list.
The main difference is
the organization's
security team performs,
evaluates, scores, and
fixes them on their own.
Security analysts play
a key role throughout
this process.
Overall, the goal of
a vulnerability assessment is to
identify weak points
and prevent attacks.
They're also how security
teams determine whether
their security controls
meet regulatory standards.
Organizations perform
vulnerability assessments a lot.
Because companies
have so many assets
to protect, security teams
sometimes need to
select which area
to focus on through
vulnerability assessments.
Once they decide
what to focus on,
vulnerability assessments
typically follow
a four-step process.
The first step is
identification.
Here, scanning tools and
manual testing are used
to find vulnerabilities.
During the identification step,
the goal is to understand
the current state of
a security system,
like taking a picture of it.
A large number of findings
usually appear after
identification.
The next step of the process
is vulnerability analysis.
During this step, each of
the vulnerabilities that
were identified are tested.
By being a digital
detective, the goal of
vulnerability analysis is to
find the source of the problem.
The third step of the
process is risk assessment.
During this step of the process,
a score is assigned to
each vulnerability.
This score is assigned
based on two factors:
how severe the impact would
be if the vulnerability were
to be exploited and the
likelihood of this happening.
Vulnerabilities uncovered during
the first two steps
of this process
often outnumber the people
available to fix them.
Risk assessments are a way
of prioritizing resources to
handle the vulnerabilities
that need to be
addressed based on their score.
The fourth and final step of
vulnerability assessment
is remediation.
It's during this step that
the vulnerabilities
that can impact the
organization are addressed.
Remediation occurs depending on
the severity score assigned
during the risk assessment step.
This part of the
process is normally
a joint effort between
the security staff and IT
teams to come up with
the best approach to
fixing the vulnerabilities
that were uncovered earlier.
Examples of remediation
steps might include
things like enforcing
new security procedures,
updating operating systems,
or implementing system patches.
Vulnerability
assessments are great
for identifying the
flaws of a system.
Most organizations use them to
search for problems
before they happen.
But how do we know
where to search?
When we get together again, we'll
explore how companies
figure this out.